I'll take record of the rolling on this end.
How long did you know, Howard?
I don't remember just exactly when they moved to Cross Plains.
It seemed to me like it was around 19 and 20 or 21.
That's when I first became acquainted with him.
He was probably 13 years old, something like that at that time.
What was he like when he was a little boy?
Break apart?
What was he like when he was a boy at 13?
He was just another kid.
Just every small town boy, his father was a doctor, just a country doctor.
His mother was Irish.
She liked to use her Irish brogue.
She really practiced on that.
Robert was very studious in school.
He didn't get out and play with the other kids a lot like most kids do.
You lived right next door to him?
Yeah, we lived right next door to you.
Yeah, we lived right next door to each other.
We lived in the house just east of our house.
Do you know when he got interested in writing?
No, but it was before he finished high school.
I don't remember just when he finished high school.
Probably about 1923 somewhere along there.
But he was already writing those stories.
Weird Tales was the magazine that published most of them.
Did you read any of them when they came out?
No, I tried. I didn't get interested in them.
I was more interested in the western story type stuff that they published at that time.
Did you ever read any of those?
I don't remember. I might have. I don't remember.
Do you remember if he ever talked much about the stuff he was writing about it?
No, he wasn't close about it or anything.
But it's been so long ago that I don't remember.
There's been a lifetime in there that's gone by and I just don't remember.
Do you remember any stories about Robert?
Any particular thing that came to mind that was memorable about him?
Well, about his home life, his private life there.
He had a big log there, a tree trunk and a sledgehammer.
I guess the thing would have weighed 12 or 14 pounds.
He'd get out for his daily exercise and beat on that log with that big old sledgehammer
until he had it beat the piece and he'd get another log.
But he was exceptionally strong due to the fact that he exercised with this heavy hammer.
He'd do that for an hour, maybe for longer, just beat on that log with that big old sledgehammer.
Then he had a dog, just a big old occur dog, and his name was Patch, P-A-T-C-H.
And when he had mealtime came, he'd fix up whatever the dog was going to eat and get out in the backyard
and start calling the dog. He'd call him Chuck Patch.
He'd call that a half a dozen times this old dog to come around wherever he was.
But it was Chuck time.
That was, principally, the things that he did.
Later on he bought a car and he'd take rides out in the country.
Sometimes with, Lindsay Tyson was a very good friend of his and single and they'd go out in the country together in his car.
Just ride around, I judge.
Now, Lindsay is dead, so you won't get to talk to him.
When did he die?
Thank you, pardon?
When did Mr. Tyson die?
Oh, just recently, about two or three years ago.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah, I've read about him and some of the research I've done on Mr. Hallard.
You know if Howard was into hunting, there was a lot of West Texans really big on hunting.
You know if Howard was a hunter?
He never did, so far as I know.
As far as I know, he did not own a rifle or a shotgun.
He did buy a pistol and that was the guy he killed himself with.
And if I remember right, it's been so long ago.
I think it was a .32-20 caliber Colt.
I may be wrong about the caliber, but I think that's what it was.
Yeah, on some of the stuff that I've read, I've read a lot of different things.
One of the people said that some of the people in Cross Plains had a feeling that Howard was going to commit suicide sometime because of his personality.
Did you ever get that impression?
What we heard, and we were, my wife and I were in California when he died.
And this was in 1936 or .37, somewhere along there.
His mother got sick and he was terminal.
And Robert told his daddy, he says, I don't want to live after my mother's gone.
And so when his mother died, he went out in the car and sat down and shot himself.
Yeah.
One of the things we've been trying, of course a lot of people have been trying to figure this out because Howard's become rather famous over the years, is why he would have done that.
You probably knew him fairly well.
Could you give any speculation as to why he would have gone out and shot himself and his mother back?
I don't know.
Like I say, my wife and I were in California at that time and we had lost contact with him.
But Robert never married, he never seemed interested in girls.
And he did have one girlfriend there and cross planes for a time.
I'd see him out in the car driving around once in a while.
But I don't think that lasted long.
He was just wrapped up in his work writing those stories.
And he had a last-hand back porch on the southeast side of the house there.
And it wasn't too far from my mother's bedroom.
And a lot of times at night he'd wake her up with that typewriter clock.
You know, it was 1 or 2 o'clock in the morning.
Some inspiration.
He'd probably be laying there in bed and think of something and he'd get up and write it down right quick.
And he just worked all the hours.
You know, whenever he'd think of something he wanted to put in a story.
Yeah, that's very interesting. That's very interesting.
I don't know. I kind of wondered myself, you know, he did write a whole lot, uh, wrote it quickly.
And I just kind of wondered if he was burning himself out.
He could possibly have been.
I remember the last time I saw him, which was long, about 1934, 1935.
He seemed in good health.
Yeah, about that last time you saw him, what do you remember about that?
Well, nothing in particular.
He was just, you know, I would say hello across the fence.
Talk a few minutes.
When we were still kids, Francis Bannerman and son was a big mail order house in New York
that handled all kinds of armament and things from medieval times on up to modern.
And we had ordered a couple of little, they weren't fencing swords in that sense.
I don't know just exactly the name of them, but they had a round heel on them, you know, where you protect your hands.
But we ordered those things and we'd get out in the backyard and wrap a bandana hat around our heads like a pirate.
And we'd get out and fence with those things.
Of course, we didn't dare, you know, hit each other with them because they were, they'd have gone through you.
But we did that quite a bit.
We had an immense live old tree in our backyard.
We'd get out there and shade that old tree in.
Pretend that we were back maybe in the dark ages or something.
Or in the time of the Spanish man.
Things like that.
He had things like that on his mind all the time.
Yeah, I just said, I just said sort of, uh, was how his imagination worked.
He had a very vivid imagination.
Yes, he did.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, let's see.
Um, I have about covered all my questions here.
I didn't want to take up too much of your time.
He had some relatives in Ranger, Texas.
Have you contacted anyone in Ranger?
No, sir.
There may be, they might have passed away by now.
But, uh, he had some aunts, one or two aunts.
I believe it was in Ranger.
And they were the only heirs to the Howard Estate there.
And they were up, up until, oh, two or three years ago.
I think some of them were still living.
I think he was still drawing relatives off of some of his stories that were still being published.
Yeah, um, I've heard of them.
We haven't, haven't attempted to talk with them.
Yeah.
But, um...
I'm sure he camped, is that his name, DeCamp?
Yes, sir.
I'm sure he contacted them and you'd probably get all that information from him.
Yeah.
Um...
And Jack Scott, of course, I know is your best authority there in Cross Plains, don't you, Robert?
Yeah, I talked to Mr. Scott before. He was, uh, he was quite helpful.
He recommended talking to Mr. Scott Baum.
And Mr. Scott Baum said, well, he, he'd called the Roy Butler. He knew him too.
So we've been kind of going, you know, from one to the other, to the other.
I see. Uh-huh.
And, uh, I think, I think we've probably got enough information here.
We may, we may call Mr. Scott again to see if, uh, if, uh, we might get a little, if he's remembering anything else.
Is this going to be, uh, probably a lot of publicity, or at least some publicity about Howard, uh, in conjunction with the movie that's coming out in the latter part of May?
I do know this, that Robert, during the time of the Depression, you know, until his death, had the best income of anyone in Cross Plains,
including the bankers from the school, the teachers, and all the other professions there,
that Robert's income from his stories was bringing in more money than anybody else in Cross Plains would join.
Yeah. Yeah, that, that, that's interesting.
Not many than the bankers too, huh?
Uh-huh.
Nobody laughed at those stories, I bet.
That's right.
Alright, Mr. Butler, I, uh, I think I've covered anything. I sure do appreciate it.
Well, you're quite welcome.